So with that let's go and take a look.
One of the things that I gave
myself was get result which does
that collecting everything in a array and
then we'll resolve it for me.
And then these are now a sync
functions than just wish if you
return the expectation.
It'll wait for
the promise to resolve in this case.
So it's just syntactic sugar
over what we did by hand before.
But I couldn't be bothered to make arrays
subscribe to things over and over and
over again in the interest to save time,
that was cool when we were trying to get
an understanding of the API of
an observable and subscription.
But like, that's old hat now,
so we're good in that sense.
All right, so here we have one where
we want to take a series of numbers,
and we want to end up with we're
dinosaur very loud, about four times.
So what are the two operators?
I only want five out of
the seven items in the stream.
What operator speaks to you?
Take, right?
So we could say take we'll say five,
right?
And we'll make sure yep,
we have it imported.
So we'll take 5 and
this will give me now 012345.
And I really have two options.
If I want to take these numbers and
change them into the same value,
what am I two options?
>> Map or map two.
>> Map or map two, in this case map two is
probably makes a little bit more sense.
So say map two.
And this map two seems like
why would I ever use this?
Will actually use it a little bit like
there are some times where you could say
like, hey, let's say hypothetical
starting and stopping a counter, right?
The start button I might
always wanna map to true.
And the pause button I might
always wanna map to false.
And then I can figure out is
the counter running or not or
what the desire state is rather than going
like, is the event from this event target.
This, right, just map does want to
stream to true mastery to true or false.
When I get them both together,
I will handle my stuff.
So that's the kind of if it feels silly.
In this example, it is silly in this
example, but like we are again,
we're building towards some stuff here.
So we have that in place,
and that passes, okay?
So I wanna skip the first five values and
double the last two.
The answer this is one of
those longer where the answers
kinda in the question, right?
If take takes the first five, skip will
in this case, skip the first five, right?
So in this case, we can go ahead and
we can skip five of them and
then we will map and
map takes the value in.
This is what I do, I deal with at
this point which is multiply it by 2.
Awesome, I let that pass.
All right, so now we're getting a little
bit we're escalating a little bit here.
We want to omit the square of every
even number in the stream, right?
So we want to kind of
ignore the odd numbers.
And then we will multiply
the even numbers by themselves.
What do we use to ignore?
I guess it's really glass half empty
glass half full kinda thing either
ignore certain values.
We're only allowing other values,
what's the operator for this one?
>> Filter.
In this case,
we will filter and we'll say n.
In this case if it does not it's not even
then it only allowed to
even once through and
then which point we can then map.
Cool, and we will unskip that test
Let's well, all right, it's passing.
All right, so we want all some of all
the total Fibonacci numbers under 200.
So we only wanna take them
while they are beneath 200,
right less than 200 which
operator we use in this case.
>> Take while.
>> Take while like we could try to lucky
guests would take that would work totally
didn't do that a few times writing this
test was making the exercise would never
dream of it, so
this one says it gonna take a while.
Okay, so
we'll do as long as less than 200.
And then we want the final total.
You notice there's only one value in
this array, that we ever admit, so
which is the, we have two choices here.
I'll give you the two choices,
the right answer, is it reducer scan?
>> Reduce.
>> Reduce,
reduce gives us the final value.
Scan will give you
everything along the way.
So we'll say total and
we'll give it a starting value and
we're on skip this test.
One of the things that we could do is have
a starting value always make sense there
is another helper that we'll see
in a little bit called start with,
which will then shoot a value through that
observable stream in the very beginning.
There's also an with, right?
So you can have, first value, and a last
value, that go through no matter what,
regardless of what the observable does,
by default.
This could be useful if you have an input
field, and you wanna be like, cool,
nobody's typed anything,
I don't have anything to work with here,
shoot through the initial values
something along those lines.
So to start with is another
one that we can use.
I don't know if I have it imported,
so that might blow up.
>> Does the reduced function
work like array reduce,
where if you don't pass
a second parameter,
it just uses the first and
second values together to combine?
>> I think the first value goes through,
the first yeah and
then the second value would be the, yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> And where reducing scan can be somewhat
interesting is it's one thing
to total up some numbers.
The other with scan, you think about
you have you can take an object, right?
And then as things go along as
let's say actions, if you want
to call them go through the stream,
you could take that object of state.
You take the object that comes through and
figure out how you want to augment that
object and effectively create
a Redux reducer out of the box.
So this could be interesting verb if
our counter got more sophisticated and
we're like, okay,
by what interval do we want to count up?
How like by fives by twos by
ones what rate every second
every five seconds up or down.
What we could do is if you've ever used
any kind of like Redux flux like data
store, you could theoretically use
scan as every action comes through.
Manipulate the final
state along the way and
you'll get every state transition right,
as you kind of go through as well so
that's where this can become
somewhat useful as well.
And what would that look like?
Well, here we have a pipe and
we'd say scan.
In scan we'd have the current state and
next like this one's not using like
actions with payloads it's just kind
of augmenting the object in this case.
And we could go ahead and do everything
that was in that last object, and
just overwrite anything
that was in the next state.
And we got to put that in parentheses
otherwise JavaScript gets very confused.
And in this case, we again, we've
basically built a mini version of redox.
Just using the scan operator and
passing through a series of values, right?
You can you could call this action.
It would work.
You just have to do the stuff
you're normally doing reduce or
if action type is whatever,
then do this state.
But yeah, effectively,
you can do a version of Redux
in just a few lines of code.
So yeah, those are some of the basic
data transformation ones, right?
Starting with simple and getting, you can
see how you might use this to kinda manage
more complex things along the way.